PREVIOUSLY ON
"CRIMINAL MINDS"...
PHILIP "THE BRICK" BROOKS,
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN.
I MAY HAVE ESCAPED
WITH MY LIFE,
THANKS TO YOU,
BUT AFTER TWO YEARS
OF PT,
ALL I GOT TO SHOW FOR IT
IS A FEW TENTATIVE STEPS.
I WENT TO VISIT
MY OLD PARTNER THIS MORNING.
HIS DOCTORS THOUGHT
HE'D BE PARALYZED PERMANENTLY
FROM THE WAIST DOWN.
I'M JUST WISHING
THERE WAS SOMETHING
I COULD DO TO HELP.
THIS IS LOU.
HI, LOU. OHH.
I THINK LOU'S
GONNA BE MY BUDDY.
THANK YOU, BROTHER.
ALVEZ: I MET
THIS GIRL, LISA.
I CAN'T STOP
THINKING ABOUT HER.
I NEVER DO THIS,
BLIND DATES.
ME, NEITHER.
BUT PHIL INSISTED
THAT WE MEET,
AND HE WOULD--
WOULDN'T TAKE "NO"
FOR AN ANSWER.
I'M GLAD YOU
CAME OVER, MAN.
IT'S BEEN A WHILE.
WELL, YOU SHOULD HAVE
CALLED EARLIER.
I WOULD HAVE HELPED
YOU OUT WITH THE MOVE.
OH, MOST OF LISA'S STUFF
WAS HERE ALREADY.
IT WAS JUST LAST
COUPLE OF THINGS.
HMM.
CLASSIC LUKE ALVEZ,
WILLING TO GO
AT IT ALONE.
OH, YOU SHOULD HAVE
SEEN HIM WRESTLE
THE BED FRAME
AT MY APARTMENT.
HE KEPT SAYING,
"DON'T WORRY, LISA.
JUST STAND BACK.
I GOT THIS.""I GOT THIS."
YOU TWO ARE THE WORST.
OK, THAT'S EXACTLY WHY
I DIDN'T INVITE YOU TO HELP.
LISA:
PHIL, WE OWE YOU.
WE WOULDN'T EVEN BE HERE
IF YOU DIDN'T INTRODUCE US.
LET'S CALL IT
EVEN THEN,
'CAUSE WITHOUT
THE TWO OF YOU,
I'D NEVER MEET LOU.
THAT LITTLE GUY,
HE SAVED ME.
WITHOUT HIM, I WOULDN'T
BE ON MY FEET
AND BACK TO WORK.
HOW'S THE NEW JOB?
I'M STILL THANKFUL
TO BE BACK AT THE FBI.
I MEAN, EVEN IF IT IS
BEHIND A DESK.
WHAT ABOUT YOU?
I HAVEN'T SEEN YOU
SINCE YOU MOVED OVER
TO THE E.R.
HOW'S IT GOING?
HMM, LEAVING THE REHAB
WING WAS TOUGH,
BUT I LOVE
THE NEW CHALLENGE.
PHIL: THAT'S GREAT.
AND NOW WE TURN TO
THE GREAT COMMUNICATOR,
LUKE ALVEZ.
WHAT'S UP WITH
THE BAU, LUKE?
EVERYTHING'S GOOD.
WELL, THAT'S ACTUALLY
MORE THAN I EXPECTED.
WHAT MORE DO YOU WANT?
WELL, SOME DETAILS, MAN,
ABOUT A CASE OR TWO.
WHAT'S NEW WITH PENELOPE?
IS SHE SEEING ANYBODY?
WHAT'S UP?
COME ON, BRO.
HOW MANY TIMES DO
I HAVE TO TELL YOU,
YOU ARE NO MATCH
FOR PENELOPE GARCIA.
I'M SMART.
I'M CONSIDERATE
AND STABLE.
MM-HMM.
DON'T FORGET EMPLOYED.
EMPLOYED. MAN, I'M
LIKE THE TOTAL PACKAGE, MAN.
COME ON.
I DON'T KNOW, OK.
I'M NOT EVEN SURE
SHE'S LOOKING.
I'VE BEEN BUSY AT WORK.
OH. ANYTHING
INTERESTING?
COME ON, MAN.
I'M GETTING
FROSTBITE OUT HERE.
HE DOES THE SAME THING
TO ME WHEN I ASK
ABOUT THE CASES.
I CAN'T EVEN GET
A MIDDLE OF THE DAY
"HOW'S IT GOING?"
TEXT FROM THE GUY.
THE TWO OF YOU.
I GOT A NEW CASE.
I'VE GOT TO RUN.
SORRY.
LATER.
MMM. MMM.SEE YOU LATER.
ALL RIGHT, MAN.
GIVE MY BEST TO PENELOPE.
MORNING, GARCIA.MMM!
HOW DARE YOU
BURY THE LEDE?
HOW DID THE BIG
MOVE
IT WAS GREAT.
SO LISA'S ALL MOVED IN?
SHE IS.
DETAILS.
LUKE, GIVE ME DETAILS
OR I'M GONNA GET
GRUMPY WITH YOU
LIKE I ALWAYS DO.
WE PACKED UP
THE LAST FEW THINGS
IN LISA'S OLD APARTMENT,
SHE HANDED IN THE KEYS,
CAME HOME,
UNPACKED A FEW MORE BOXES.
OH, THEN LOU AND PHIL
CAME OVER.
LOU! HOW IS MY SWEET,
SWEET LOU?
HIGH ENERGY.
YEAH, I MEAN, HE REALLY
WEARS ROXY OUT.
SHE SLEEPS FOR LIKE
TWO DAYS STRAIGHT
AFTER HE VISITS.
PLAYING WITH A PUPPY
AND THEN A NAP,
THAT IS LIKE HEAVEN.
IT'S PRETTY GOOD, YEAH.
OH, LISA SAYS THANKS
FOR THE WALL-HANGING
THAT YOU MADE US.
SHE LIKES IT?SHE LOVES IT.
FANTASTIC.
I REALLY THINK
IT'S GONNA BRING
THE WHOLE LIVING ROOM
TOGETHER
BECAUSE IT'S
LIKE POWERFUL
WITHOUT BEING
OVERPOWERING,
YOU KNOW.
I AGREE. YEAH.
WHAT ABOUT PHIL?
DID HE ASK ABOUT ME?
NO.
YOU READY TO FIGHT CRIME?
OH, BORN READY.
BRING IT.
GARCIA: 3 VICTIMS
IN 3 DAYS--
RICK SALAZAR,
MICHAEL WILLIAMS,
AND JOHN REYNOSO.
EACH WAS SHOT IN
THE BACK OF THE HEAD
WITH A .40-CALIBER
PISTOL.
THEY LIVED IN DIFFERENT
STATES RUNNING SOUTH
ALONG THE EASTERN SEABOARD.
JOHN, THE MOST RECENT,
WAS IN NEARBY
BETHESDA, MARYLAND.
EXECUTION STYLE.
COULD BE PROFESSIONAL.
REID: YOU KNOW,
MOST ASSASSINATIONS
ARE ONE AND DONES.
HIT MEN ACQUIRE A TARGET,
EXECUTE THEM,
AND THEN DISAPPEAR.
KILLING MULTIPLE
VICTIMS WITHOUT
CHANGING HIS M.O.
EXPOSES HIM AND
MAKES HIM TRACKABLE.
JJ: THE VICTIMS
WERE SEEMINGLY-AVERAGE
PEOPLE
WITH NORMAL
MIDDLE-CLASS LIVES.
NOTHING HERE SAYS THEY
WOULD BE TARGETED BY A HIT MAN.
YEAH, KILLING RANDOM
PEOPLE'S JUST NOT
WHAT A HIT MAN DOES.
IF THEY'RE MOVING THIS FAST,
THEY MUST BE WORKING OFF A LIST.
WHAT IF ALL 3 VICTIMS
ARE KEY WITNESSES
TO A FEDERAL CRIME?
THAT WOULD PUT THEM
ON A LIST.
AS WOULD
WITNESS PROTECTION.
GARCIA, START RUNNING
THROUGH THE WITSEC DATABASE.
I'LL REACH OUT TO THEM
AND THE U.S. ATTORNEY'S OFFICE,
SEE IF THERE'S
ANY OVERLAP.
GOT IT.
REID: WE SHOULD ALS
CONSIDER THAT OUR UNSUB
MIGHT NOT BE A HIT MAN,
THAT HE'S OPERATING
OFF A LIST OF VICTIMS
BASED ON THEIR
PERCEIVED TRANSGRESSIONS.
A MORAL ENFORCER.
WELL, EITHER WAY,
WE NEED TO ASSUME
THERE ARE OTHER TARGETS.
WE'LL RUN THE CASE
OUT OF HERE
UNTIL WE CAN PREDICT
HIS NEXT MOVE.
BUT BASED ON HIS SPEED,
WE WILL HAVE TO WORK FAST.
NO.
NO, PLEASE.
I KNOW YOU WON'T
LET ME GO,
SO JUST GET IT OVER QUICK.
PLEASE, THAT'S ALL
I'M ASKING FOR.
AHH! STOP!
CAPTIONING MADE POSSIBLE BY
ABC STUDIOS, LLC AND CBS, INC.
ALVEZ: "I'M A FIGHTER.
I BELIEVE IN THE
EYE-FOR-AN-EYE BUSINESS."
MUHAMMAD ALI.
GARCIA: GUYS.
BAD NEWS.
A FOURTH VICTIM
ALREADY?
PAUL McENTEE,
ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA,
JUST SOUTH OF HERE.
HE'S AN ACCOUNTANT,
LIVED ALONE.
I SENT ALL THE FILES
TO YOUR TABLETS AND PHONES.
ANY LUCK WITH WITSEC?
NOT YET.
AND I'VE BEEN SCOURING
ANY PERTINENT FBI DATABASES.
NOTHING THERE, EITHER.
TWO KILLS IN LESS
THAN A DAY.
HE'S SPEEDING UP.
WELL, IF OUR UNSUB'S
A HIT MAN, HE'S MOVING
FAST TO AVOID DETECTION.
HE MIGHT BE NEAR
THE END OF HIS LIST.
REID: I'M STILL NOT
CONVINCED HE IS A HIT MAN.
IF HE'S A VIGILANTE
OR MORAL ENFORCER,
THE SHORTENING
COOLING DOWN PERIOD
COULD BE A SIGN
HE'S LOSING CONTROL.
SPENCE, YOU, DAVE,
AND TARA GO TO BETHESDA.
LUKE AND I WILL HEAD
TO THE M.E.'s OFFICE,
TAKE A LOOK AT
THE LATEST VICTIM.
I'LL HAVE MATT AND JJ
GO TO ARLINGTON.
SIMMONS: THEY TOLD US
TO GO TO THE BEDROOM.
THAT'S WEIRD.
IT'S YOURS.
NO, THAT'S WEIRD.
PAUL McENTEE HAS
A PANIC ROOM.
WHY WOULD AN ACCOUNTANT
WITH NO FAMILY
NEED A PANIC ROOM?
WELL, IF HE WAS
A WITNESS IN A KEY CASE
OR IN WITSEC,
HE'D PROBABLY WANT
TO FEEL PROTECTED.
YEAH. WITSEC WOULDN'T
PAY FOR SOMETHING LIKE THIS,
AND HE COULDN'T AFFORD
THIS ON HIS SALARY.
PAUL MUST HAVE HAD
A SECOND INCOME,
LIKELY DISCREET
AND PAID IN CASH
TO KEEP HIM OFF
ANY RADARS.
WELL, WE NEED TO FOLLOW
THAT MONEY TRAIL.
IT COULD HELP US
PIECE TOGETHER
THE VICTIMOLOGY
CONNECTION WE'VE
BEEN MISSING.
JJ, JUST LOOK AROUND.
WHAT DO YOU SEE?
WELL, EXCEPT FOR
THAT BLOOD SPATTER,
I'D HAVE NO IDEA A CRIME
WAS COMMITTED HERE.
EXACTLY.
HEH. YEAH, THIS GUY'S
NOT LOSING CONTROL.
HE'S COLD, CALCULATED.
HE'S SIMPLY DOING A JOB.
HE'S NOT TRYING TO TEACH
ANYBODY A LESSON HERE.
IT FEELS LIKE WE CAN
TAKE MORAL ENFORCER
OFF THE TABLE.
C.O.D. ON PAUL McENTEE
WAS TWO SUCCESSIVE
GUNSHOT WOUNDS
TO THE BACK OF THE HEAD
AT CLOSE RANGE
WITH A .40-CALIBER PISTOL.
SAME AS THE FIRST THREE.
SO HE CONTROLLED THEM
WITH THE GUN.
DID HE TORTURE THEM
AT ALL?
THERE'S NO EVIDENCE
OF HEMATOMA ANYWHERE
ON HIS BODY,
BUT THERE IS PRE-MORTEM
BRUISING TO HIS WRISTS.
IF HE'S A PROFESSIONAL,
WHY GO THROUGH ALL THE TROUBLE
OF TYING HIM UP JUST TO
KILL HIM IN THERE?
MAYBE HE WANTED
TO MUFFLE THE SOUND?
.40 CAL'S A BIG GUN
WITH A BIG BANG.
I ALSO FOUND
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE
IN HIS MOUTH, THROAT,
AND STOMACH.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE?
THAT'S HOUSEHOLD BLEACH,
ISN'T IT?
THAT'S RIGHT.
HE MADE HIM DRINK
AN ENTIRE
BOTTLE'S WORTH.
SO HE COULD HAVE LET HIM
DIE FROM THE POISONING,
BUT HE CHOSE NOT TO.
THAT'S A PRETTY
CLEAR MESSAGE.
YOU'RE A RAT, SO I'M
GONNA SILENCE YOU FIRST
BY BURNING YOUR
MOUTH AND THROAT,
AND THEN I'LL KILL YOU.
HE DID THIS TO ALL
OF THEM, DIDN'T HE?
HE DID.
HAVE YOU SEEN THIS BEFORE?
YEAH, I HAVE.
IN MEXICO.
ALVEZ:
THIS IS EDUARDO RAMOS.
HE'S THE MOST FEARED
SICARIO IN MEXICO.
A SICARIO'S A HIT MAN, YEAH?
SPECIFICALLY HIT MEN
THAT WORK FOR MEXICAN
DRUG CARTELS.
HE'S WITH
THE MARTINEZ CARTEL.
THEY'RE ONE OF THE
MOST DANGEROUS AROUND.
WELL, LOOK, THE M.O.
OF THESE GUYS IS
TYPICALLY BRUTAL.
WHAT MAKES RAMOS
MOST FEARED?
HIS UNRELENTING FOCUS
AND COMPLETE LACK
OF BOUNDARIES.
HE'S GOT NO MORAL CODE.
I MEAN, IF YOU'RE
HIS TARGET,
HE DOESN'T STOP
UNTIL YOU'RE DEAD.
IF THAT MEANS GOING THROUGH
EVERY MAN, WOMAN, AND CHILD,
HE DOES.
NO HESITATION.
SOMEONE ELSE, YOU MIGHT
BE ABLE TO BUY YOUR WAY
OUT OF IT, NOT RAMOS.
THERE'S NO BRIBING HIM.
THERE'S NO APPEALING
TO HIS SENSES.
EDUARDO RAMOS IS
A KILLING MACHINE
THAT NEVER FAILS.
SO HOW DID YOU MEET HIM?
5 YEARS AGO I WAS WORKING
A CASE WITH THE DEA
AND MEXICAN POLICE FORCE.
OUR GOAL WAS TO
ARREST RAMOS.
AND DID YOU?
IT GOT COMPLICATED.
ALVEZ: RAMOS SHOULD BE
CROSSING THE STREET
HEADING TOWARDS US
ANY SECOND.
GRANT, YOU IN PLACE?
AFFIRMATIVE.
A SNIPER. PULLING
ALL THE STOPS.
FOR PROTECTION.
IT'S JUST IN CASE.
OK.
YOU DON'T GET THAT
MANY SHOTS TO A GUY
LIKE RAMOS.
HEY, MANNY, OUR JOB
IS TO ARREST HIM.
THE CARTEL OWNS MOST
OF THE JUSTICE SYSTEM.
HE'LL BE OUT IN 3 DAYS.
THIS IS OUR CHANCE.
COME ON, WE AREN'T
MERCENARIES.
AND HE'S NOT HUMAN.
HE MURDERED OVER 50 PEOPLE,
AND THAT'S THE ONES
THAT WE KNOW ABOUT.
MEN, WOMEN, CHILDREN,
INNOCENT.
EDUARDO RAMOS
DESERVES TO DIE.
NO.
HIS VICTIMS DESERVE JUSTICE.
THAT'S WHAT THEY'RE
GONNA GET.
PHIL:
HEY, THERE'S RAMOS.
MAKE THE ARREST,
LUKE.
WE'RE NOT ABOVE
THE LAW.
OK. GO, GO, GO.
WHAT THE HELL?
MANNY: AMBUSH!HE'S RUNNING.
GET DOWN!
I'M GOING AFTER RAMOS!
MAN: COPY.
UHH!
GRANT: ALVEZ.
I HAVE A CLEAN SHOT.
NO! DON'T TAKE THE SHOT.
DON'T TAKE THE SHOT!
ARE YOU SURE?
ALVEZ, ARE YOU SURE?
YES.
I GOT HIM.
ALVEZ: INSPECTOR
SILVA WAS WRONG.
RAMOS STAYED IN PRISON
FOR 3 YEARS,
AND THEN HE BROKE OUT
AND VANISHED.
NOW, BOTH THE DEA
AND THE FBI BELIEVED
HE'D COME BACK
TO GET HIS REVENGE
ON THE MARTINEZ CARTEL
BECAUSE SOMEONE
INSIDE THE CARTEL,
AND WE NEVER FOUND OUT WHO,
GAVE US THE INITIAL TIP
THAT LED TO HIS ARREST.
SO THE TRAIL THAT LED
TO PAUL McENTEE'S
PANIC ROOM
MAY HAVE STARTED WITH
THE MARTINEZ CARTEL,
AND IF THAT'S TRUE,
IT LIKELY INVOLVED DRUGS.
YEAH. GARCIA, WE NEED YOU
TO GO THROUGH THE DEA DATABASE
AND FIND OUT IF ANY
OF OUR VICTIMS ARE
CONNECTED TO THE CARTEL.
COPY THAT.I ALSO GOT THE GREEN LIGHT
FROM PRENTISS
TO BRING IN MY BUDDY PHIL.
HE'S GOT A LOT OF
CONTACTS IN THE DEA.
MAYBE HE CAN HELP.
WHAT THE HELL?
I DON'T KNOW
THE OTHERS,
BUT THIS GUY,
PAUL McENTEE,
I RECOGNIZE HIM.
HE WAS A MIDDLEMAN
FOR THE MARTINEZ CARTEL.
HE GREASED THE WHEELS
THAT BROUGHT THE PRODUCT
INTO THE COUNTRY.
JJ: YOU THINK HE'S
THE C.I. WHO
GAVE UP RAMOS?
WE NEVER KNEW THE
IDENTITY OF THE C.I.,
BUT IT'S POSSIBLE.
IF THIS IS AN ACT
OF REVENGE FOR RAMOS,
I DON'T THINK IT MATTERS.
ANYBODY ASSOCIATED
WITH THE CARTEL'S
GUILTY IN HIS EYES.
ALL RIGHT, NOT ONLY
BECAUSE THEY RATTED HIM OUT,
THEY ALSO ABANDONED HIM
IN PRISON.
SO HE'S GONNA KILL
EVERYONE INVOLVED,
NO MATTER HOW FAR REMOVED
FROM HIS ARREST IN MEXICO.
ALL RIGHT, I'LL LET
PENELOPE KNOW WHAT WE FOUND.
TELL HER I SAID HI.
IT'S MANNY.
I REACHED OUT TO HIM.
MANNY: PHIL BROOKS.
WE THINK EDUARDO RAMOS
IS BACK,
BUT HE'S IN THE STATES.
THAT'S IMPOSSIBLE.
IT MIGHT SOUND
IMPOSSIBLE,
BUT WE'VE GOT
4 BODIES THAT SAY SO.
NO, I MEAN THAT'S IMPOSSIBLE
BECAUSE EDUARDO RAMOS
IS DEAD.
DEAD?
YEAH.
HE STAYED OFF THE RADAR
AFTER HE GOT OUT OF PRISON.
WE FIGURED HE WAS
LAYING LOW.
BUT THEN I GOT A CALL
THAT EDUARDO RAMOS
WAS GUNNED DOWN IN SINALOA.
TWO SHOTS BEHIND THE HEAD.
AND LISTEN TO THIS,
HE HAD BLEACH
IN HIS STOMACH.
WHEN DID YOU FIND OUT
ABOUT THIS?
A FEW WEEKS AGO.
IT WAS IMPOSSIBLE
TO PIN DOWN.
THE VERY REPUTATION
OF THE SICARIOS ARE
THAT THEY'RE GHOSTS.
BUT A FRIEND OF MINE
CONFIRMED IT IN SINALOA,
AND I SAW THE BODY MYSELF
TWO DAYS AGO.
SINALOA ISN'T EVEN
PART OF MARTINEZ
CARTEL TERRITORY.
WHY WAS RAMOS THERE?
HARD TO SAY.
HE COULD HAVE BEEN
HIDING OUT OR WORKING.
WHO DO YOU THINK
DID THIS?
PLENTY OF PEOPLE
HAVE MOTIVE--
A RIVAL CARTEL,
HIS OWN CARTEL,
HELL, VICTIMS' FAMILIES.
ALL RIGHT.
THANKS, MANNY.
SOMEONE'S POSING
AS EDUARDO RAMOS.
YEAH, BUT WHO
WOULD DO THAT?
WHOEVER IT IS KILLED
THE MOST FEARED
SICARIO IN MEXICO
USING HIS OWN M.O.
AGAINST HIM,
THEN DID IT 4 MORE TIMES
WITHOUT US KNOWING
THE DIFFERENCE.
THIS GUY'S MORE DANGEROUS
THAN WE THOUGHT.
MAN: HAIL MARY,
FULL OF GRACE,
THE LORD IS WITH THEE.
BLESSED ARE THOU
AMONGST WOMEN
AND BLESSED IS THE FRUIT
OF THY WOMB JESUS.
MAN: KEEP GOING.
I CAN'T. IT BURNS.
FINISH IT.
HOLY MARY,
MOTHER OF GOD,
PRAY FOR US SINNERS
NOW AND AT THE HOUR
OF OUR DEATHS.
AMEN.
ALVEZ: HEY, IT'S ME.
IS EVERYTHING OK?
YEAH. WHAT, A GUY CAN'T
CALL HIS WOMAN
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE DAY
JUST TO SAY, "HOW'S IT GOING?"
AW. LUKE ALVEZ,
YOU LISTENED.
TECHNICALLY, NO.
I CALLED. I DIDN'T TEXT.
AND YOUR ONE-UPS-MANSHIP
WILL BE JUSTLY REWARDED
UPON YOUR TRIUMPHANT
RETURN HOME,
WHICH HOPEFULLY IS SOON.
I HOPE SO.
HOW ABOUT I PICK UP
A BOTTLE OF YOUR
FAVORITE WINE
ON MY WAY BACK
AND YOU ORDER THAI
FROM THAT LATE-NIGHT
PLACE DOWN THE STREET
AND WE GET UNDER
THE COVERS AND WATCH
THE NEW SEASON OF OUR
FAVORITE SHOW TILL SUNRISE?
HOW ABOUT WE DO
SOMETHING ELSE
UNTIL SUNRISE?
YEAH, I GOT TO CALL
TO CHECK IN MORE OFTEN.
UNFORTUNATELY, IT CAN'T
ALWAYS BE THAI FOOD AND SEX.
SO, GARCIA'S
WALL-HANGING...
YEAH, I, UM, I KNOW.
WHERE DO YOU WANT
TO HANG IT?
THERE'S A NICE BIG SPACE
OVER THE RECORD PLAYER.
IT SHOULD GO THERE.
WAIT,
YOU LIKE IT.
I LOVE IT.
OH, THAT'S--
ROSSI: THERE'S BEEN
ANOTHER MURDER.
THIS TIME IN SPRINGFIELD,
SOUTH OF ARLINGTON.
REID'S ALREADY THERE.
OK.
HEY, IT'S WORK.
THEY NEED ME. I GOTTA GO.
I'LL CALL YOU LATER.
OK.
STAY SAFE. LOVE YOU.
I LOVE YOU, TOO.
SIMMONS: WHAT DID
YOU FIND, SPENCE?
VICTIM'S NAME IS
MIKE EVERSON.
HE OWNS AN AUTO SHOP
AND LIVED ALONE.
THE DEA SAYS HE'S
A KNOWN DRUG TRAFFICKER
FOR THE MARTINEZ
CARTEL,
SO EVEN THOUGH RAMOS
ISN'T OUR GUY,
IT APPEARS AS THOUGH
THE UNSUB IS STILL
PUNISHING HIS VICTIMS
FOR THEIR CARTEL TIES.
ANY SIGNS OF A STRUGGLE?
DID MIKE FIGHT BACK?
HE DID, AND DURING
THE FIGHT, THIS HAPPENED.
THIS PART RIGHT HERE
ISN'T BLOOD.
IT'S A MIXTURE OF
CHEWING TOBACCO
AND SALIVA.
WHAT'S WEIRD IS
THE UNSUB USED BLEACH
TO TRY TO CLEAN IT UP,
BUT HE LEFT BEHIND
SOME RESIDUE.
I'M HAVING IT RUN THROUGH
ALL THE APPROPRIATE
CRIMINAL DATABASES.
I MEAN, HOPEFULLY
THERE'S A HIT.
SON OF A...
WHAT?WE NEED THE WHOLE TEAM.
I KNOW WHO DID THIS.
SO DNA FROM THE LATEST
CRIME SCENE CONFIRMS
THAT OUR UNSUB
IS JEREMY GRANT.
HE WAS A DEA SNIPER
PHIL AND I WORKED WITH
IN MEXICO
WHEN WE WERE HUNTING
EDUARDO RAMOS.
WE WEREN'T TIGHT,
BUT WE KNEW HIM A BIT.
HE TOOK ORDERS WELL.
HE WAS GOOD AT HIS JOB.
I LOST TOUCH WITH HIM
AFTER MEXICO.
YEAH, SO DID I.
SIMMONS: THAT'S NOT
UNCOMMON AFTER A MISSION.
SO WHAT HAPPENED?
JEREMY GRANT STILL
WORKS FOR THE DEA.
HE LIVES IN MEXICO
WITH HIS WIFE
AND TWO DAUGHTERS.
WOW, HE WAS PRACTICALLY
RAMOS' NEIGHBOR.
UH, HE'S LIVED IN MEXICO
FOR OVER 10 YEARS.
BOTH OF HIS DAUGHTERS
WERE BORN THERE.
HE WAS JUST PUT ON
MANDATORY BEREAVEMENT
FOR...
OH, MY.
HIS WIFE AND CHILDREN
WERE ALL MURDERED
IN THE FAMILY'S HOME.
THEY WERE ALL FORCED
TO DRINK BLEACH
BEFORE BEING SHOT TWICE
IN THE BACK OF THE HEAD
WITH A .40-CALIBER PISTOL.
IT MUST BE RAMOS.
WHERE WAS GRANT
WHEN IT HAPPENED?
GARCIA: HE WAS OUT OF
THE COUNTRY ON ASSIGNMENT.
HE DISCOVERED THE BODIES.
SOMEHOW RAMOS MUST HAVE
GOTTEN A LIST
OF EVERYBODY INVOLVED
WITH HIS ARREST.
AND HE WENT AFTER
THE GRANTS FIRST
BECAUSE THEY LIVED
THE CLOSEST.
AFTER THAT, HE LIKELY
WOULD HAVE GONE AFTER
SILVA AND HIS MEN,
AND THEN CROSSED STATESIDE
AND COME AFTER US.
BUT GRANT GOT TO HIM FIRST.
WE PROFILED GRANT
AS EITHER A HIT MAN
OR A MORAL ENFORCER,
BUT HE'S ACTUALLY BOTH.
HE'S A MORAL ENFORCER
POSING AS A HIT MAN.
IT'S THE PERFECT COVER.
WE NEED TO FIND
EVERYONE ASSOCIATED
WITH THE CARTEL
IN THIS IMMEDIATE AREA.
THAT'S WHERE HE'S
HEADING NEXT.
THE DEA's JUST
GIVEN US 3 MORE
SUSPECTED MARTINEZ CARTEL
CONTACTS IN THE D.C. AREA.
I JUST SENT YOU ALL
THEIR INFO, GARCIA.
ON IT. KEN RONSON,
STEVE BAGNIS,
KATHLEEN JENSEN.
I'VE SENT YOU THEIR
HOME AND WORK ADDRESSES.
PHIL, DO YOU RECOGNIZE
ANY OF THEM?
NO.
OK, THEN WE HAVE TO ASSUME
ALL 3 ARE STILL IN PLAY.
LET'S SPLIT UP AND GO.
YEAH. I'LL KEEP YOU POSTED.
YEAH, YOU BETTER.
I'LL STAY BY MY PHONE.
ALVEZ: KEN RONSON. FBI.
WHAT?
WHAT IS THIS?
WHERE'S YOUR FAMILY?
IS IT RAMOS?
NO.
IT'S SOMEONE
WORSE THAN HIM.
WORSE?
WHERE IS YOUR FAMILY?
INSIDE.
THEY'RE INSIDE.
I WAS JUST ON
THE PHONE WITH MY WIFE.
SHE PACKED OUR BAGS.
WE'RE LEAVING TOWN.
I HEARD RAMOS
WAS COMING.
WE'LL PUT
THE 3 OF YOU IN
PROTECTIVE CUSTODY
UNTIL IT'S SAFE.
MANNY, IT'S GRANT.
THIS WHOLE TIME IT'S
BEEN JEREMY GRANT.
GRANT: I KNOW.
WHAT ARE YOU DOING, GRANT?
WHAT DID YOU DO
WITH MANNY?
NOTHING...YET.
I ONLY CLONED HIS NUMBER
SO YOU COULDN'T TRACE IT.
JEREMY, YOU HAVE TO STOP.
REALLY, I HAVE TO STOP?
OPEN YOUR EYES, LUKE.
IF I WOULDN'T HAVE
STARTED AND KILLED RAMOS,
YOU'D ALREADY BE DEAD.
SO YOU'RE WELCOME
FOR THAT.
THIS IS NOT HOW
WE DO THINGS.
YOU KNOW THAT.
WHAT I KNOW IS
THAT MANNY WAS RIGHT.
YOU GET A CHANCE
TO PUT A BULLET
IN A SON OF A BITCH
LIKE RAMOS, YOU TAKE IT.
ARREST HIM.
THAT WAS THE ORDER.
AND THAT ORDER GOT
MY FAMILY KILLED.
I'M SORRY ABOUT
YOUR FAMILY.
YOU GOT YOUR REVENGE
ON RAMOS.
ALL RIGHT, SO WHAT'S
YOUR PLAN NOW,
KILL EVERYONE IN
THE WHOLE CARTEL?
NO.
JUST EVERYONE WHO
RATTED OUT RAMOS,
EVERYONE INVOLVED
IN THE TAKEDOWN.
THAT INCLUDES ME,
DOESN'T IT?
NO, YOU GET TO LIVE.
SAME WAY I DO,
TORTURED BY
THE KNOWLEDGE
THAT YOUR DECISIONS
GOT THAT ONE PERSON
YOU LOVE MOST KILLED.
JEREMY, NO.
SHOULD HAVE LET ME
TAKE THE SHOT, ALVEZ.
SIMMONS: LUKE!
[CAR DOOR CLOSES,
ENGINE STARTS]
GARCIA.
LISA: LISA'S PHONE.
LEAVE A MESSAGE.
COME ON, PICK UP.
LISA, IT'S ME AGAIN.
PLEASE JUST CALL
OR TEXT ME, ALL RIGHT?
I NEED TO KNOW
YOU'RE OK.
CALL LISA.
LISA: LISA'S PHONE.
LEAVE A MESSAGE.
PICK UP!
THAT NUMBER HAS BEEN
ROUTED AND RE-ROUTED.
THIS GUY IS GOOD, MATT.
BUT I PINGED LUKE'S PHONE,
AND HE'S ON HIS WAY HOME
IN A HURRY.
WAIT.
SIMMONS, OVER PHONE:
GARCIA?
LUKE'S HOUSE.
WHATEVER THAT PHONE CALL WAS,
IT HAS TO DO WITH
LUKE'S HOUSE
BECAUSE HE'S ON HIS
WAY THERE AND...
LISA. LISA'S AT HOME.
OH, MY GOD, MATT.SIMMONS: ON MY WAY.
OK, YOU NEED TO GET
THERE IN A HURRY,
AND I'M GONNA--I'M GONNA
LET THE REST OF THE TEAM KNOW.
IT'S ALL HANDS ON DECK.
HEY, WHAT'S THE MATTER?
LUKE AND LISA.
WHAT ABOUT THEM?
I DON'T KNOW,
IT'S JUST A GUT CALL,
BUT I THINK--I THINK
LISA'S IN TROUBLE.
MATT'S ON HIS WAY
TO THEIR HOUSE RIGHT NOW.
OK, I'LL GET ROSSI
AND JJ.
WE'LL MEET HIM THERE.
OK. OH, DEAR GOD.
OH, DEAR GOD,
PLEASE NOT AGAIN.
THIS TEAM'S GONE
THROUGH ENOUGH.
ALVEZ: OH, GOD.
LISA?
LISA!
OH, THANK GOD.
WHAT THE HELL?
THANK GOD YOU'RE OK.
I'M FINE. WHAT'S--
WHAT'S GOING ON?
I THOUGHT YOU WERE
IN TROUBLE.
LUKE.
BUT HE DIDN'T KNOW
ABOUT YOU.
LUKE.
WHAT?
PHIL.
ANY LAST WORDS?
GO...TO HELL.
OFFICER: POLICE!
PUT DOWN YOUR WEAPON.
I SAID PUT DOWN YOUR WEAPON,
THEN GET ON YOUR KNEES
AND PUT YOUR HANDS
ON YOUR HEAD.
I'M ON DUTY.
SUPERVISORY SPECIAL
AGENT LUKE ALVEZ
WITH THE FBI's BEHAVIORAL
ANALYSIS UNIT.
MY BADGE IS MY RIGHT
BACK POCKET.
OH, MY GOD, LUKE.
I'M SO SORRY.
WE'RE HERE FOR YOU,
BROTHER.
IF THERE'S ANYTHING
YOU NEED, JUST LET US KNOW.
CAN YOU WATCH LOU
FOR A FEW HOURS?
ABSOLUTELY.
I WAS JUST COMING
TO FIND YOU.
CAN WE TALK?
COME IN.
I KNOW WHAT YOU'RE
GONNA ASK ME,
BUT I CAN'T LET YOU
STAY ON THIS CASE.
YOU'RE A POTENTIAL TARGET
OF A TRAINED ASSASSIN.
NOW, I KNOW YOU'VE
REQUESTED A PROTECTED DETAIL
AT THE HOUSE FOR LISA,
BUT THE FACT OF THE MATTER
IS YOU NEED ONE, TOO.
STANDING OPERATING
PROCEDURE.
I GET IT.
THANK YOU FOR UNDERSTANDING.
AND WE WON'T REST
UNTIL WE CATCH
JEREMY GRANT.
I PROMISE.
IS THERE ANYTHING
I CAN DO FOR YOU?
YEAH.
YEAH, I NEED TO GET
HOME AND SEE LISA.
I SCARED THE HELL
OUT OF HER.
AND I NEED TO START
MAKING PHONE CALLS
AND PAYING VISITS.
PHIL'S PARENTS...
HIS BROTHER
AND HIS SISTERS,
HIS ARMY BUDDIES
AND MANHUNTERS,
PEOPLE IN C.I.D.
UM...
I NEED A LITTLE LEEWAY
WITH THIS DETAIL ON ME.
OK.
BUT THEN I'LL NEED
REGULAR CHECK-INS FROM YOU.
ABSOLUTELY.
WE GOOD?
WE'RE GOOD.
PRENTISS: JEREMY GRANT
HAS KILLED MULTIPLE PEOPLE.
NOW THAT HE'S MURDERED
A FEDERAL AGENT,
HE KNOWS THE FULL WEIGHT
OF EVERY AGENCY
IN THE U.S. LAW
ENFORCEMENT MACHINE
WILL BE LOOKING FOR HIM.
REID: WE KNOW FROM HIS
PROFILE HE'S NOT SUICIDAL.
EXACTLY. SO HE'LL
GO UNDERGROUND,
WHICH MEANS HE'LL
EITHER FLEE THE COUNTRY
OR WAIT FOR
THE STORM TO PASS.
HE'S A SNIPER WITH
RESOURCES ON BOTH
SIDES OF THE BORDER.
RIGHT. THESE GUYS ARE
TRAINED TO HAVE SAFE HOUSES
AND BACKSTOPS.
PRENTISS: OK, THAT'S
WHERE WE START.
I WANT A FULL BACKGROUND
ON GRANT'S DEA HISTORY--
MISSIONS, KNOWN ASSOCIATES,
ANYONE OR ANYTHING
THAT WOULD HELP KEEP HIM
OFF THE RADAR.
JJ's RIGHT, HE WILL TRY
AND GO UNDERGROUND,
BUT BEFORE HE DOES,
I HAVE A FEELING HE'S
GOING TO WANT TO GET IN
ONE FINAL SHOT.
THANKS, GUYS
MATT TOLD ME WHAT HAPPENED
BEFORE HE LEFT.
I'M SO SORRY, LUKE.
GO PACK A BAG.
PACK A BAG?
WAIT.
YOU NEED TO TELL ME
WHAT'S GOING ON HERE.
THE GUY THAT KILLED PHIL,
I KNEW HIM.
I WORKED WITH HIM.
AND THE TWO COPS
OUTSIDE THE DOOR
AREN'T GOING TO BE
ABLE TO STOP HIM.
YOU KNEW HIM?
YEAH.
LOOK, I GOT AN ARMY
RANGER BUDDY OF MINE
COMING TO PICK UP
YOU AND ROXY.
OK? JOHN AND HIS WIFE CARLA.
THEY LIVE OFF THE GRID.
YOU'LL BE SECURE WITH THEM.
I'LL CALL YOU
WHEN IT'S SAFE.
YOU'LL CALL?
YOU'RE NOT COMING
WITH US?
NO.
BECAUSE YOU'RE
GOING AFTER HIM.
LOOK AT ME, OK?
JUST LOOK AT ME.
YOUR BEST FRIEND
WAS MURDERED,
AND I KNOW
YOU'RE HURTING,
BUT DON'T DO THIS.
PLEASE DON'T DO THIS.
I HAVE TO.
HEY.
HEY, I'M ALMOST DONE
COMPILING THIS LIST
OF BUSES AND TRAINS
GRANT COULD GET OUT
OF TOWN IN.
GREAT. I HAVE
A STRANGE REQUEST.
I NEED YOU TO FIND
LUKE'S PHONE.
OK.
UH, LUKE IS AT HOME.
AHH, HE'S SMART.
HE'D LEAVE HIS PHONE.
LOOK, I HATE TO
DO THIS, BUT...
GRANT ISN'T THE ONLY
ONE WITH SKILLS.
WHEN LUKE WAS A MANHUNTER,
HE'D GO UNDERCOVER.
THAT MEANS FAKE IDENTITIES
AND MULTIPLE PHONES.
I NEED TO SEE IF ANY
OF THOSE PHONES
ARE ACTIVE NOW.
OK. THAT'S GONNA
TAKE A MINUTE.
WHAT DO YOU THINK
HE'S UP TO?
PRENTISS: I'M AFRAID LUKE
MIGHT TAKE MATTERS
INTO HIS OWN HANDS.
ALVEZ: WHAT IS THIS?
BACK UP.
JUST IN CASE.
YOU REALLY NEED
ALL OF THIS?
WE WORK MANHUNTERS,
TRACKING DOWN THE
BADDEST OF THE BAD.
AND WHEN WE WIN,
IT CAUSES VENDETTAS.
THE FBI HAS FAIL-SAFES
TO PROTECT US.
YEAH, LIKE THAT'S GONNA
SAVE US IN TIME.
WHO ELSE KNOWS
ABOUT THIS?
JUST US.
WHAT'S IN THERE?
NEW IDENTITIES.
THESE ARE PRETTY
DAMN GOOD.
WHERE'D YOU GET THEM?
IN MEXICO GRANT TOLD ME
ABOUT HIS GOOD FRIEND.
THE GUY'S A FORGER.
HE LIVES AND WORKS
AROUND HERE.
HOW MUCH?
THIS WILL COVER IT.
HALF UP FRONT,
HALF ON DELIVERY.
HOW DO I GET
AHOLD OF HIM?
I GOT HIS NUMBER.
THE GUY'S FAST, TOO.
ONLY TAKES HIM AN HOUR
START TO FINISH,
AND THEN YOU'LL BE
A BRAND-NEW MAN.
JJ:
THERE AREN'T MANY
FLIGHTS OUT
THIS TIME OF NIGHT.
I'VE GOT ONE, MAYBE TWO
POSSIBLE OPTIONS.
AIRPORT'S RISKY,
EVEN FOR HIM.
IT'S WALL-TO-WALL
CAMERAS.
YEAH, BUT HE'S
ARROGANT ENOUGH
TO THINK HE COULD
BEAT THEM.
GARCIA COMPILED A LIST
OF BUSES AND TRAINS
THAT PASS THROUGH OR
ORIGINATE IN THE AREA
AT THIS TIME OF NIGHT.
WE HAVE 3 GOOD OPTIONS,
AND I ALREADY HAVE HER
PULLING CCTV FOOTAGE
AND PASSENGER MANIFESTS.
OK, YOU KNOW,
WE NEED TO JUST
STEP BACK A SECOND
AND STOP THINKING
ABOUT GRANT
LIKE HE'S A TOURIST.
WE NEED TO START
THINKING ABOUT THIS
LIKE HE'S, I DON'T
KNOW, TRYING TO
SMUGGLE HIMSELF OUT.
REID: IN THAT CASE,
WE SHOULD LOOK AT
COMMERCIAL TRUCKING ROUTES.
IT WOULD TAKE TIME
AND COORDINATION,
BUT IT'S A GOOD WAY
OUT OF THE COUNTRY,
ALTHOUGH IT DOES LIMIT
HIS DESTINATION OPTIONS.
OK, NOW WHAT ABOUT
INTERNATIONAL WATERS?
ONCE YOU'RE OUT THERE,
ALL BETS ARE OFF.
YOU CAN PRETTY MUCH
GO ANYWHERE YOU WANT.
THERE'S SMALLER MARINAS
OFF THE POTOMAC,
AND THERE'S THE PORTS.
WELL, ALEXANDRIA'S
THE CLOSEST TO D.C.,
BUT IT'S SMALL.
IF GRANT REALLY WANTED
TO BLEND WITH A CROWD,
HE'D HEAD DOWN
TO BALTIMORE.
BY OVERALL DOLLAR
VALUE OF CARGO,
IT'S THE NINTH BIGGEST
PORT IN THE U.S.
AIRPORTS, MARINAS,
BUS TERMINALS.
ALL RIGHT, LET'S GET
THE REST OF THE TEAM
AND GET STARTED.
WHAT COUNTRY YOU WANT?
SAME ONE YOU MADE
FOR JEREMY GRANT.
DON'T KNOW HIM.
SORRY.
NO, I THINK YOU DO.
IN FACT, I THINK YOU
SAW HIM TONIGHT.
NOW, WHERE'S HE GOING?
I ALREADY TOLD YOU
I DON'T KNOW.
SERIOUSLY,
I HAVE NO IDEA.
SWEAR TO GOD,
NO FREAKIN' IDEA, OK?
OH, COME ON, MAN.
IF YOU'VE GOT A BEEF
WITH HIM, THAT'S
BETWEEN YOU TWO.
LEAVE ME OUT OF IT.
I WILL, ONCE YOU TELL ME
WHERE HE'S GOING.
IT'S A COMPLICATED PROCESS.
NO, IT'S NOT.
EITHER YOU TELL ME
AND YOU LIVE,
OR DON'T AND DIE,
BECAUSE I WILL PULL
THE TRIGGER.
HE'S HEADED TO THE PORT
IN BALTIMORE.
JUST DON'T KILL ME.
GRANT!
GARCIA, WE'RE MINUTES
AWAY FROM THE MARINA.
GARCIA: TURN AROUND.
TURN AROUND RIGHT NOW.
JEREMY GRANT IS IN
BALTIMORE AT THE PORT.
BUT WE ALREADY
RULED OUT THAT PORT.
I KNOW, BUT LUKE.
WHAT ABOUT HIM?
I HAD A HUNCH
ABOUT LUKE,
SO I HAD GARCIA
KEEP TABS ON ALL
THE PHONES
HE USED DURING HIS
UNDERCOVER DAYS
IN THE MANHUNTER UNIT.
YEAH, ALL THOSE PHONES
ARE DEAD EXCEPT FOR ONE,
AND IT IS PINGING
RIGHT AT THE PORT.
THANKS, GARCIA.
WE'RE TURNING AROUND.
LUKE.
PHIL: MAKE THE ARREST, LUKE.
WE'RE NOT ABOVE THE LAW.
SIMMONS: LUKE!
IT'S OK.
GIVE ME THE GUN.
GET UP.
I TOLD YOU YOU HAD TO
SIT THIS ONE OUT.
YEAH. I KNOW.
YOU DEFIED A DIRECT ORDER.
I CAN'T LET IT SLIDE.
BECAUSE A SHOT WAS FIRED,
OPR WILL TAKE YOUR GUN.
I'M NOT ASKING FOR
YOUR BADGE YET,
BUT I AM PLACING
FIELD RESTRICTIONS ON YOU.
FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE,
YOU WILL WORK OUT OF THE BAU.
YOU'RE NOT ALLOWED
TO TRAVEL WITH THE TEAM.
THERE WILL ALSO BE
A FORMAL DEMOTION.
YOU'LL BE DOWNGRADED
FROM SUPERVISORY SPECIAL AGENT
TO SPECIAL AGENT.
NEITHER OF THOSE ARE
NECESSARILY PERMANENT.
YOU CAN EARN BACK
BOTH PRIVILEGES,
BUT IT WON'T BE EASY.
IS THAT CLEAR?
YEAH.
GOOD.
YOU'RE LUCKY YOU
DIDN'T KILL HIM,
OR YOU'D BE GONE FOREVER.
HEY.
IT'S NOT THAI.
BUT I KNOW YOU LIKE THAT
DINER DOWN ON SIXTH STREET.
GIVE ME A REASON
NOT TO LEAVE.
THE THREAT'S OVER.
IT'S SAFE.
THAT'S NOT WHAT I MEAN.
I MET PHIL BROOKS
ON AUGUST 10, 2007...
AFTER AN ATTACK ON MOSUL.
BODY COUNT WAS HIGH.
THE HIGHEST
I'D EVER SEEN.
AND THIS LITTLE GIRL...
THIS LITTLE GIRL
DIED IN MY ARMS.
PHIL WAS THERE.
IT SOUNDS STUPID,
BUT, UH...
HE WAS THE FIRST GUY
THAT I EVER CRIED
IN FRONT OF.
AND WE BOTH GOT
INTO THE FBI.
WHEN WE THOUGHT HE
LOST HIS LEGS,
WE...WE CRIED AGAIN.
SOMETIMES IT'S HARD,
YOU KNOW,
THIS JOB.
IT'S HARD
TO FIND SOMEONE
THAT YOU FEEL
SAFE WITH.
YOU'RE SAFE WITH ME.
CAPTIONING MADE POSSIBLE BY
ABC STUDIOS, LLC AND CBS, INC.
CAPTIONED BY THE NATIONAL
CAPTIONING INSTITUTE
--www.ncicap.org--